---
title:  "Kubernetes Volume"
header:
teaser: "https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4076/4940499208_b79b77fb0a_z.jpg"
categories:
 - k8s
tags:
 - BackEnd
---
 
Pods are ephemeral. They can disappear anytime. This sounds dreadful, if you think about data persistence.

Luckily, Kubernetes support persistence storage with pods. As you probably know, Kubernetes utilizes Linux file directory system

for pods. The file system comes from the container's image. Therefore, every containers in the pod should start with

the exactly same file system. Out of the container isolation, freshly created container should never now what was going on with the previous

container before. In result, there is something for persisting data here. 

Kubernetes volumes are not standalone objects, so they can not be deleted and created by themselves.

The key let Linux mounting a filesystem at arbitrary locations to connect the container and the volume. 

Volumes are created before the containers finish the creation phase.

Volumes is bound with the pod lifecycle, which means volume disappears when pod goes out.

However, there is a way to keep the volume even after the pod deletion.



Main Volume Types: 

emptyDir, hostPath, gitRepo, nfs, gcePersistenceDisk, awsElasticBlockStore, azureDisk , cinder, 

cephfs,iscsi,flocker, glusterfs, quobyte, rbd, flexVolume, vsphere-Volume, photonPersistentDisk, 

scaleIO, configMap, secret, downwardAPI, persistentVolumeClaim



Every time the pod is created, it pulls the latest version of your website and starts serving it. 

The only drawback to this is that you need to delete the pod every time you push changes to the gitRepo

and want to start serving the new version of the website.



Sidecar container

augmentation of main container

reuse of the main container code


hostpath volume

A hostPath volume points to a specific file or directory on the node’s filesystem

Pods running on the same node and using the same path in their hostPath volume see the same files.

hostpath is never for persisting data. It is for writing and reading files


persistent volume & PersistentVolumeClaim

for hiding infrastructure specifics





